Hello everybody and welcome back in this that show we're going to have a look at collisions and colliders
on an object at the moment.
We are stuck in the room even when the door is open.
This isn't ideal.
Now there are four main options and we'll run through them all in this lecture.
The first one remove the collider at the moment there's absolutely no need for that doorframe to really
have a collider because it is pretty much flush with the rest of the wall.
So we could get away with just removing it altogether.
So that is first option the next one is using something called complex collision.
And what that does is it takes the actual geometry data and makes a collider out of it.
This is incredibly expensive and is very bad practice especially as your scenes get larger and larger.
You can use it in a pinch as a as a stopgap perhaps.
But one of those things is you'll probably forget that you've done it.
And then later on you could end up with an issue especially if the option or the objects sorry that
you've applied the complex collision to is something that's repeated many times in your scene.
That's something you want to try and avoid.
We could use BSP and convert it to a static mesh and then use that as a hidden item in the game nested
towards the door frame itself.
Giving us an actual collider so we can bump into something now as well as using BSD and converting them
to a static mesh.
If you happen to have an object that is really simple you could simply use some of the primitives that
come along with unreal.
And then you don't have to go through the process of creating a BSP.
Now this is an option and it's actually quite a good option if you don't have the final one and the
final one here is get the artists to provide assets in the first place with the collision and look at
that.
Unreal is jumping into my presentation eager to be shown.
So let's hop on over into one real.
Hello everybody and welcome back in this lecture.
We're going to sort out the issue we have with our doorway here.
You may not realize it but when we go ahead and press play I'm sure you've tried this.
You can't actually get out the door at the moment and that's because of the collision not on the door
but on the door frame itself.
Now we can go into our models folder so let's make this a little larger again and have a look at our
door frame.
We go ahead and do that.
What we will see if I just drag this down and dockets over here and stuck it over this side we have
our door frame.
And if we go to our coalition and look at the simple collision which is what it will be using we can
see here there's a green box going around our entire model.
But there's nothing on the inside that's because convex shapes that shapes that have gaps or holes in
them are more difficult to calculate on a physics level.
So a simple collision will be like this which just puts a bounding box around the outside of the geometry
and doesn't cater for anything in the middle so we physically can't get through this.
It's as if it was a solid block.
Now if we use complex collision here we can see what the extra or rather not use complex collision but
actually have a look at what the collision looks like on a complex level we can see that it's much more
detail.
Let me turn off simple to make it easier to see but it has far far more geometry on it.
And that's an issue that's a big issue when it comes to performance of your game with everything you
just set to use complex collision which we can do as a solution.
That's not ideal because that doesn't get to the root problem of the fact that it doesn't have correct
collisions set up.
Now there are a couple of ways that we can approach this the very very simple way for testing purposes
would be on the right hand side under the details to scroll down until we get to the collision and then
down here the collision complexity.
If we change that from Project detail to use the complex collision as simple and apply that save and
then go back to building escape when we press play we should be able to escape.
Hurrah.
Excellent.
Do we need to do anything else.
Well I'd argue yes.
I've seen many tutorial out there where that is where they end it.
And that to me is no good because if he did that throughout the rest of your game as I've mentioned
it would be incredibly slow.
This is after all physics we're talking about.
And if you've got many things in a scene having to have physics calculations done on them all the time
that can really slow down your game.
Now if this was the only item that had a physics object on it then absolutely fine it probably is not
going to have a performance.
But it's not ideal.
What's another way that we could solve this.
Well the door frame itself the way that it's nested within the wall I would argue we actually don't
need collision on it at all.
That is another thing we can do.
So we can go back to our doorframe.
But what we can do here is we can simply remove parts of our collisions so we can go to a collision
and just remove the collision from it.
So now it doesn't have any collision.
If we have a look over here there's zero elements in our array 0 array elements absolutely fine.
So we can save that once again and go back to our building escape press play and we can still escape.
And the reason for that is that our object doesn't really need collision on it.
But let's say for argument's sake say it did.
How could we get a better low polygon version of our collision.
Well there is a very simple straightforward way of doing this.
You do it when you create the model in the first place.
That's the key there.
However if you don't have a model available or you don't have access to the model at that particular
level you don't have the program to open it up.
You can actually use BSD.
It's relatively straightforward to do we could come in here and we could create another geometry brush
drag a box in and then we would just have to set it up to be the right size.
I think it's around 20 by oh how deep is it.
Let's go for 40 and tall is about two.
So then it's just a matter of matching these up in our world.
And this probably goes the other side quite well.
Yeah OK.
So we can probably make it a bit narrower and you can see here this is a bit old TDC in many ways but
we could very quickly go ahead and I'm holding down the wrong button and we go use out duplicate it
pop it over the top and then finally have another one at the top here and what we can then do is join
all those together so lift this other one up move it to roughly the middle and rotate it round just
to finish this off and it's going to need to be a little bit smaller.
So I'm just going to adjust its local z value until it's roughly right and then pull it back across.
It doesn't have to be precise.
Now I can select all of those brushes so I'm going to hold down shift as I select them.
Now I might not be able to in the viewport so I'm going to do it over here so have all three selected
I can create a static mesh and I can call this a collision so let's go to our models themselves and
in here I'm going to call this door underscore frame coalition forgot the other underscore creates a
static mesh and then when it comes to the door frame itself it's collision we leave off and our door
frame collision if we go ahead and show simple collision we can see that it also doesn't have anything
at the moment but what we can do is scroll down and now set this as use complex as simple and you can
see this is a much much more simple match.
And if I had bothered to line things up a bit better then it would be even lower polygon which is awesome.
So that is a way of creating a lower collision but the ideal way is to have it ready and waiting for
you.
So what we'll do now is I'm going to close that down.
That's not ideal either but it does get you out in a pinch.
This is still in our scene.
So it's asking us Are you sure you want to do that so let's delete it.
We'll see that in a moment a bit more detail with these two objects that we're going to replace.
Let's go ahead and delete it.
There are references in the undo history.
That's absolutely fine.
So there we go.
That's gone right.
What's the better way of doing it.
Well you will find against this lecture I have remade the door and door frame.
So let's go ahead and import those now.
OK.
So before we go ahead an important if you have your models named like this it's going to asked overwrite
them in which case you can go Yes boom done.
However I'm going to just name mine underscore old for the moment oh let's make sure I'm naming them
that.
OK.
Now the reason why I'm doing this is because I'd like to show you how to replace an asset rather than
just overwrite overwriting nice and simple.
So those are old ones.
It also has attacked them with the word old.
So we know we can delete them in the moments and let's go and import.
So I have created for you some static meshes with the right names to begin with.
It's against this lecture to download that zip file and you can just import them straight into your
scene.
I'm going to open these now and of course we haven't changed the name of the model itself.
So this is absolutely fine here.
I'm going to just say e no to all because I don't want to overwrite anything and auto generate collision
you can leave off at this point and just import all here we go.
So I have my doorframe here.
That's the thing that I want to alter.
I have done one for the door as well but it's pretty much the same anyway.
So we've got our and doorframe here you can see it's named it twice which is just the way the naming
convention works.
I'm going to come in here and rename it.
So it doesn't have all of the extra bits and bobs on it.
Now notice here that it also doesn't have any materials on it yet as well so I'm going to set that up
by double clicking on it and going to the material slots and selecting door frame material so it's all
ready to go save materials applied.
We don't need to worry about that.
Okay.
So how do we go ahead and swap this out for the old one.
Well we can simply click on the door frame itself.
Go down to the details tab and we can see here it's currently got the S.M. doorframe old attached to
it.
And I can simply swap it out with the S.M. doorframe and we're done are we done.
No.
There's another one here.
So this is one of the things where you if you must absolutely make sure that you've got all the new
ones on what you can actually do here is starts the deletion process.
So if I go to the old doorframe actually in my content browser and go to delete it you can see that
there are references in the undo history and they're still being used as still reference the memory.
Which means they're in our scene or attached to something in the in terms of their classes and things
like that.
You can force delete.
No I don't recommend doing that as a blanket.
I'd recommend finding where the other instances we know it's here because we've got two of those objects
in our scene and I can swap that static mesh out as well.
So that's that's done is it.
Well let's go ahead and see cannot delete it.
So there are references in the undo history the undo history to be clear.
That's absolutely fine and assets referencing the pendant deleted assets.
We got a redirect to what is that.
Well let's go ahead.
Let's replace our references with the static meshed doorframe.
Replace our references.
Do you need anything else.
Are you sure.
Yes and then we can go ahead and save selected.
Now we have these redirect as here you can actually see those.
If we go to our filters tab and go to other filters show redirect as we can see that there are quite
a few things in this folder and you may want to tidy these up from time to time and you'll have to go
to the next level up so our models folder is within the contents browser and then we can right click
and fix up redirect to zoom folder and what that will do is it will just make sure that anything that
is being used is still there.
And now when we have a look all of those extra ones are gone.
So some to just bear in mind and we can come back in and turn that off at any point to make sure that
everything is nice and neat again but to redirect to is simply if you've moved something it make sure
that if some other bits of code is referencing or another model is referencing it it knows where to
go find where you've moved it to.
But if you let real deal with fixing up your redirects then you know that everything is okay.
Now I'm going to do the same here for my door I'm going to import it since my scene imports all we've
got the new door there I'm going to go into it I'm going to dock this at the top here so we can see
what's going on.
We've got two material slots here Element Zero element one it's great that I don't know which ones which
if I open this up.
Yeah.
Here we go.
Wood.
So it's just hidden away.
What the name was so I know that I can go here and select my door material and this is the brass material
itself.
So there we go that's reconstructed.
We can save we can come back in and we can swap out the door as well.
And what we would do in a second is just have a look at the collision shapes that have come across.
So I just need to change out this door for that one and the same over here and I should be able to delete
my static door old.
I'm going to update my references to the new one click Okay.
That's absolutely fine.
Save selected.
Here we go.
I'm gonna change the name here to be sensible.
And then I'm going to come out and I know I'm going to have to fix up redirect.
So I'm going to do it straight away.
Okay so everything there is done.
The only thing we now need to do is make sure that it works.
So let's have a look at our door frame and go to our simple collision and you can see how much more
simple that collision is.
And that has been made over in blender to fit our door.
And you can see here is rough and ready as well it comes out the top ever so slightly so it could be
a wee bit neater but it's just the same as creating those BSD essentially and then putting them into
our scene.
So I'm going to close that down there.
Everything should now work when we press play I should still be able to leave the room.
There we go.
Perfect.
And that's the way that your collisions should be set up within the file itself.
So you don't need to worry about setting up default collisions in our scene.
So that's everything done that I'm just going to build my scene so that that lighting gets all sorted.
And there we go.
Everything is in its place now.
Out of those four different ways which one would you pick for your door.
Obviously if you've imported my asset here you have everything set up did you go and create your own
with BSD.
It's entirely up to you how you go ahead and do that and it would depend on what your needs are.
I would probably argue that no collision is better in this particular case because we can't squeeze
out of the room.
That's the only thing we worry about.
And then having the collision on the object to begin with is just something the game has to calculate
even though it doesn't really have an effect on the game the door itself.
Yes that does need a collision on it so that when we open it we can walk through.
However the door frame itself I'd question whether it needs one in the first place anyway as the end
of this lecture look forward to seeing how your world is coming along and I'll see you all in the next
lecture.